You can use Apple's Motion program to create
dynamic title effects that can be stored as
Master Templates for easy use from within
Final Cut Pro.
Click on the text tool and type a title in
the Canvas window.
Navigate over to the inspector window and
click on the text and layout tabs.
Change the alignment to center.
Click on the transform tool to position and
scale your title.
Go ahead and adjust the size and location
of your title directly in the canvas window.
To adjust the color of your title, click on
the style tab.
If you like you can choose from one of the
pre-built gradients.
Activate the timeline window by using Command
7.
At the top of the screen, click on the add
behavior button and choose text animation
- sequence text.
Click on the behaviors tab within the inspector
window.
Within the sequence text behavior, add the
parameters that you want to adjust.
In this case I’ll add some parameters for
an outline.
I'll add color, blur, and width parameters.
Then I'll make some adjustments.
I'll set a blur value of blur 10 and a width
value of 8.
Then I'll change the color of the outline
to a bright yellow.
Adjust this sequencing parameter to get the
soft outline to travel through the letters.
If you want the soft outline to travel through
more letters you can specify this in the spread
parameter.
To change the speed of the behavior, adjust
this purple behavior.
Trim the title track out to the number of
seconds you'd like to use for your template.
Okay, that's it! Check it out.
The last step is to save a template.
Choose save as template from the file menu.
If this is your first time creating a motion
template, you will need to create a new theme.
Then give your template a name.
Apple Motion will then take a few moments
to render the template.
Once that's down you can move right over to
Final Cut Pro.
In Final Cut Pro, you will find your template
in the generators Menu, under master templates.
Selecting your template will place it in the
viewer window.
You can now make changes to your template
by clicking on the controls tab within the
viewer window.
You can now use this template over and over
again to maintain a constant look for your
show.
Depending on your computer's processing speed
you may need to render the final effect to
see is play smoothly.
For other great tips and tricks like this
or to enroll in a Final Cut Pro or Motion
training course, visit GeniusDV.com